Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Life, how about…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm sorry, we have bells going off here, I apologize for that. Where is that coming from?
Jerry Michalski: No worries about the bells.
Jerry Michalski: We're not… I don't think we're hearing them here, they might be in your background.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Zoom does a good job of eliminating background sounds.
Jerry Michalski: It does. It's got nice filters. This is the Open Global Mind Weekly Call on Thursday, September 25th, 2025.
Jerry Michalski: Gil was just reporting in on the many different Zoom meeting assistants he's been trying out, and a bit of an addiction, and how he had withdrawal from getting off Facebook just recently. And I was reminded of the scene in French Connection Part 2, I think.
Jerry Michalski: Where the French mafia addicts Popeye Doyle to heroin, and then he has to go cold turkey, and there's… I think I remember a really good scene… I was young. I was a little young for an R-rated movie back then, but I remember a scene where he goes through withdrawal, and it was my first exposure to that.
Jerry Michalski: What happens that way.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I don't remember that at all. All I remember from that movie is the car chase under the elevated trains.
Jerry Michalski: Yep.
Jerry Michalski: Which, apparently, they didn't have a lot of clearance to do that. It's… the story, I think, is that they just kind of winged it.
Alex Kladitis: Sorry, Jerry, just to… for posterity, and because we're recording this, just to clarify, that was the first time you said you went… you realized what cold turkey was, one of the many you've been through? Is that what you're suggesting?
Jerry Michalski: I did not suggest that, but but yeah.
Alex Kladitis: By the way, if I disappear, we've had two parkheads in the last,
Alex Kladitis: hour or so, so if I disappear, it's not because of something you've said.
Alex Kladitis: Or anyone said, it's because we had a popcup.
Jerry Michalski: Stranger.
Alex Kladitis: strange new world of ours, two and a half years, I saw someone
Alex Kladitis: working on a local substation, asked him what he was doing. He said they were… they were joining up extra parts of power into the substation, so if one path cuts out, there's another one kicks in straight away.
Alex Kladitis: We've had plenty of pod cuts since then, whatever the…
Stacey Druss: PowerPoint.
Alex Kladitis: Would you?
Jerry Michalski: I know the system is.
Alex Kladitis: Yeah, whatever the system is, it doesn't work.
Alex Kladitis: Order.
Jerry Michalski: Clearly an improvement.
Alex Kladitis: Well, they spent money, economy worked, people got shares, you know, shareholdings or whatever.
Jerry Michalski: Yep.
Alex Kladitis: System kicks on, moves on.
Jerry Michalski: Cool.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, I am reading your email, and I think it's a nice idea.
Jerry Michalski: about the topic. I can either read what you just said, or you can explain what you said. Which do you prefer?
Stacey Druss: Well, if you understood it from reading it, I trust they will understand it.
Jerry Michalski: Cool. I think I'll just read it in in a sec.
Jerry Michalski: Where's everybody?
Jerry Michalski: Is there enough going on in the world for you?
Jerry Michalski: Cheer.
Jerry Michalski: Kind of crazy times.
Jerry Michalski: Let's dive into the topic, and I'll read, I'll read Stacy's note to the open global mind list, which is, Hi gang, for the topic of abundance, I'd like to request trying out a simple speed round exercise before going into our usual rounds of conversation
Jerry Michalski: I propose that we each say, in a few words, think of it as a title, phrase, headline, bumper sticker, whatever you want to call it, that only answers the what it is.
Jerry Michalski: Refrain from adding the how, where, when, and why. Just what abundance is, I think you're saying.
Jerry Michalski: Yes. At least for this quick run. Anyone can choose to say pass. Thank you for consideration. At least you didn't say thank you for attention to this matter, which is how Trump ends many of his incredible Truth Social posts, which is, of course, the source of news these days. That's how policy's made.
Stacey Druss: Which is why the wink was there, to make sure that you made that connection between attention and consideration, and the parallel between what I was saying and what Trump was saying. So there's a reason for that wink.
Jerry Michalski: Very nice, very nice. There's a wink and also hearts, so…
Stacey Druss: Love that. I thought the hearts were obvious.
Jerry Michalski: Beautiful. That sounds great. So, why don't we make a little circle of the room and see what, what, just the what, not the how, why, what, not the explanatory stuff, and just a short phrase, it's a, it's a, it's our quick round robin, so don't go way deep, but think about what abundance
Jerry Michalski: is. And, I think I'll just ask for volunteers, whoever would like to go.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, why don't you go first?
Stacey Druss: Because I thought about it.
Jerry Michalski: Love, love that.
Stacey Druss: Abundance for me is having what you need when you need it.
Jerry Michalski: Are we done? Is that good for everybody?
Stacey Druss: Sure, yeah.
Stacey Druss: That's the point.
Stacey Druss: We can add later.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'll go.
Jerry Michalski: Please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Jerry, I like your manner of asking for all the volunteers, that's excellent.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I immediately thought of the passage in PirKayavot, the wisdom of the Father, wisdom of the ancestors. It said, who is rich?
Stacey Druss: The person who is content with their lot.
Jerry Michalski: Intent with their luck.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Content.
Jerry Michalski: Content, yes, I'm glad I thought I said.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Shop.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Gil. Who's next?
Jerry Michalski: everybody's being so pithy, and, like, right on, right on mission here. I'm a little, like…
Jerry Michalski: It's early, how'd that happen?
jessie: I'll go. Hi, Jerry. Hi, everyone.
Stacey Druss: Jesse?
jessie: Hi. I'm gonna say… Ikigai.
Jerry Michalski: Ikigai. So the, the overlapping diagram, Of, what you…
jessie: Love, do what you are good at, do what the world needs, and do what you can pay… get paid for.
Jerry Michalski: There we go.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. Who else would like to go?
Jerry Michalski: Abundance.
Alex Kladitis: Oh, by the way, I'll just pass on that one.
Jerry Michalski: Alex passes.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent.
Pete Kaminski: Pete, Rick, Doug, Klaus? I have an oblique, contribution. Love is all you need.
Jerry Michalski: Cool.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I would… Framing along the same lines as skilled abundance.
Klaus Mager: Is, is, to be at peace with, you know, what, with the gifts you have been given.
Doug Breitbart: For me, I think, infinite possibility.
Jerry Michalski: Infinite possibility, love that.
Jerry Michalski: John, you've come into…
Jerry Michalski: We're doing a very quick round on what abundance means, what we think abundance is in, like, a phrase or sentence or bumper sticker.
Jerry Michalski: And we're two-thirds of the way through the group.
Jerry Michalski: So if you'd like to jump in, that's good. I'm going to be slightly controversial, and I'm going to say abundance is more than enough.
John Warinner: That's a good answer.
Jerry Michalski: Who else would like to jump in?
John Warinner: Well, I apologize for being late, but I'll roll with what you said, Jerry. More than enough is a good way to frame it.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. Rick, Foss?
Jerry Michalski: Class went. Oh, that's right, that's right, class went. Rick, can you hear us? Come in, Rick. Come in, Rick.
Rick Botelho: Oh, yes, yeah, yeah, I'm just, co-intelligence.
Jerry Michalski: Abundance is co-intelligence.
Jerry Michalski: Alright.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Stacey Druss: Yo, everybody.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, that worked well. Thanks, Stacy.
Jerry Michalski: So… Pete has a whole new avatar picture for his… I was like, oh wait, wait, this is new.
Jerry Michalski: It's like when we change our hairdo, like, what happened? Wait.
Jerry Michalski: So, I'm really interested in the contrast, because back in the day, Diamandis and Kotler wrote Abundance, and they kind of meant
Jerry Michalski: We now have the capacity to make, between nanotech and endless energy and all these sort of… it was a techno-optimist manifesto of sorts.
Jerry Michalski: And it comes from a place of, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, like, we could… we could just overwhelm all these places where there is scarcity with… with technology. And it's a little light on the barriers and between belief systems and regulations and politics and all that kind of stuff. It's pretty light on that.
Jerry Michalski: I've not read either of these books in full, but,
Jerry Michalski: But it was very much in a techno-optimist vein. Then, very recently, Ezra Klein and Derek Thompson wrote Abundance, which I think doesn't have a subtitle, which has become a piece of the democratic movement, and was saying, hey, one of the things that's preventing us from getting abundance on things like housing and other social goods
Jerry Michalski: is over-regulation and constraints, and some people are critiquing this view as being kind of neoliberal. It's very much, let's get the government, let's get regs out of the way so that we can generate abundance for everybody.
Jerry Michalski: which is possible if we sort of let people get things built and done. The book, I think, has a very nice critique of progressives and liberals who have layered in so many regs that it's hard to do things. I have a friend who's in commercial real estate here in Portland, and you only need to, like, glance at this topic, and he will regale you with stories about why it's
Jerry Michalski: So, so difficult.
Jerry Michalski: To get things built or done, here in Portland. And then… and then… I've got a point of view on abundance that I'll just put in… put in the room, which is that
Jerry Michalski: humans who know how to live in community on the commons create abundance in many ways together, and that it requires trust to do so. And so I created a little formula that I like called scarcity equals abundance minus trust.
Jerry Michalski: Which is not about either of the things that I just mentioned, the other two approaches from the other two books. It's more that
Jerry Michalski: In places around the world, we used to know how to create abundance, and we didn't have to worry people could be happy and well-fed and live well. In some cases, Aboriginal cultures in Australia, for example, way before the advent of things like money, you know, the payment of rent for shelter, all those kinds of things.
Jerry Michalski: And by raising this, I don't mean we should all abandon our homes and all currency and go back to a nomadic lifestyle, but I do mean that if we can manage to,
Jerry Michalski: Achieve small degrees of cooperation.
Jerry Michalski: a little bit like what Rick was saying a moment ago, that we can collectively create abundance much more than we think we can. That abundance is kind of at hand in how we think of resources and stewardship versus ownership and other things like that.
Jerry Michalski: Kevin and Kalia and Jose, we just did a little lightning round a moment ago about what we think abundance means. If it was a bumper sticker, kind of a really short phrase, you know, a bumper sticker or sentence, if you'd like to take a swing at that, we'd love to hear what you think abundance means. You can also pass.
Kevin Jones: Pooled and shared resources with, mission-focused local investing.
Jerry Michalski: Cool, got some specifics there. Kalia?
Kaliya Identity Woman: I really… like, something that I've heard as sort of, a way…
Kaliya Identity Woman: To get us through the wormhole that we're in, which is abundant enoughness.
Kaliya Identity Woman: Like, there's a really a significant… Challenge, where…
Kaliya Identity Woman: People who have a lot, a lot are…
Kaliya Identity Woman: Continue to want a lot, and like…
Kaliya Identity Woman: Like, how do people get into their nervous system like they actually have enough, and they don't need to, like, accumulate more, and they can…
Kaliya Identity Woman: choose to, like, co-create community together, because I'm in a bunch of circles… Where… Like, people's…
Kaliya Identity Woman: Including this one. People say lots of nice things. Where's our community where some of us are living together?
Kaliya Identity Woman: you know, I'm a… anyway, so abundant enoughness as a kind of frame, that is a sense of being that we can get into, so then that people…
Kaliya Identity Woman: Those with resources are actually aligning and
Kaliya Identity Woman: You know, and also, how are those people with resources, like, asking deeper questions about why are people hoarding?
Kaliya Identity Woman: They're hoarding for good reason, so how do we help meet their needs without the need to hoard?
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Goya.
Jerry Michalski: Jose, did you want to jump in with… short…
Jose Leal: I, to be honest, I'm not sure what abundance means.
Jerry Michalski: from…
Jose Leal: it's… It seems to be a good…
Jose Leal: Catchphrase that we've all picked up, and a lot of us are talking about.
Jose Leal: But, I think abundance comes from technology, for the most part, whatever technology that means.
Jose Leal: Right? Social technology, physical technology, artifacts,
Jose Leal: Is that what we mean by… by it? I don't know. I struggle with really sort of grasping what abundance means in these contexts.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, Jose. And I'll just add, there's a book from 2010 by Juliet Shore titled Plenitudes, The New Economics of True Wealth.
Jerry Michalski: which plays with that notion that abundance is too much, that the goal of abundance winds up being a little bit like Pete just posted in the chat about consumer abundance. He writes, the paradox of abundance. We live in a world where you have a practical abundance of many things.
Jerry Michalski: food, technology, consumer goods, but overabundance of some, for some people can cause addiction, affliction, disease, and the abundance isn't well distributed. Many people are starving and without basic needs. Totally agree.
Jerry Michalski: And so there's, like, this mirage that we all desire abundance, and I'm… I'm interested in Kalia's hack of the brain, of how do we convince more people that when they've got enough.
Jerry Michalski: It's… it's good. They're gonna be fine, they're gonna be fine. More might actually even be damaging in different ways, either to them or their family or society. We don't know. But… but clearly society is not very oriented in that way. With that, I will turn to the hands queue and go to Gil.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah. Yeah. Notable to me that until Pete's, ad in the chat, none of us was talking about abundance as being lots of stuff.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'll echo for those who came in later, my comment at the beginning was to reach back to a Jewish wisdom text called Pirkeavot, The Wisdom of the Ancestors, that asks, who is rich? The person who is content with their lot.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which I think is the mood of a lot of the comments, that I've heard here. Jerry, you're,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Your framing had a lot of moving parts in it, but I just want to pick up on the… on the books. I haven't read either of them either. I know that I really need to read Ezra Klein, because of where it is in the contemporary dialogue, but I'm really struck by how… how off
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: the debate over too much regulation versus too little regulation is. We, all of us, depend on it, and there's too much in many places. I mean, I live in Berkeley, I know a little bit about housing regulation, being a pain in the ass.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But, you know, these things happen because people built buildings that fell down on people's heads and were fire traps and etc. So, you know, that's part of what the Commons does, is set boundaries of what we do together. And so… and I've had, in my professional work, I've had a bit to do with intelligent regulation.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: where,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Where businesses can actually embrace it, because it provides certainty and clarity, and not burdensome paperwork barriers to getting things done, but makes things work better. And it's a question of how they're designed, and by whom, and for what.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, it's an example of just, you know.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I don't know if I'm… I don't know if I'm accurately blaming Klein for this. I generally like his work, but I'm surprised by what I hear about this book as being, you know, a kind of, you know, maybe a seriously misframed argument.
Jerry Michalski: Which is part of what I was hoping we would sort of touch in this conversation. Thanks for putting that on the table, Gil.
Jerry Michalski: John.
John Warinner: Yeah, this isn't a… well, I'll just say, I'm… I'm interested also in the connection, and this goes back to Kalia's comment, is the term affluence, which, you know, has gotten a little bit of a…
John Warinner: bad association, like, with affluenza and that kind of thing, but, like, you go back to the… to the origins of affluence, and it's abundant flow.
John Warinner: And so I think… I think when you're talking about abundance, it's also important, you know, to think of that verb element of it. You know, the flow, of abundance versus the hoarding of abundance, I think, is a real key,
John Warinner: And I think it's… I think it's interesting, you know, how words… the meanings of words change over time, but with the origin of affluence, affluence, you know, that's… there's a fluor… fluid flow, you know, element to that, and so the idea of… in today's culture, where affluence
John Warinner: you know, the mental picture that may come to mind is this hoarding, you know, accrual type of thing is not what that term was originally, you know, pointing to at all, so I think that's important.
Jerry Michalski: I love that. Thank you, John. And I think abundant flow, the perception of abundant flow, is what causes people to relax and think maybe they don't need to hoard.
Jerry Michalski: So, seeing that there's more than enough for everybody in whatever the resource is that they're talking about.
Jerry Michalski: I think lets people relax, so there's, I think, a bunch of nuance there about
Jerry Michalski: what we perceive to be available, how durable we think it'll be, you know, all that kind of thing. Gil, I think your hand is still up from earlier.
Jerry Michalski: So I'll go to class.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I think the way we perceive abundance depends very much on
Klaus Mager: On our personal position to it, our… the way we see ourselves and the world around us, because there's no way that…
Klaus Mager: physical goods and physical well-being can… is… will ever be evenly distributed. There will always be some who have more than others. But the… the… both… both in the New Testament way of thinking, in Buddhism.
Klaus Mager: You know, it's about how you position yourself within the world around you. So the notion of suffering, you know, do you cause yourself to suffer by… by wanting, you know, by wishing to have, and so on. And so… so I think it's… it's… it's a very unique concept.
Klaus Mager: On a very individual level.
Jerry Michalski: And also has really interesting complications on a cultural, societal level around the world. There are lots of, I think, different perceptions of it that only a few of which we're probably aware of in different ways.
Jerry Michalski: Jesse, please.
Jessie Upp: Thanks, Jared. Can you repeat that statement that you said about abundance without trust? Can you repeat that?
Jerry Michalski: Of course, scarcity equals abundance minus trust, meaning.
Jessie Upp: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Meaning humans knew how to create abundance, but it took trust to do it.
Jerry Michalski: So when you squish out the trust in those systems, you get scarcity. And then capitalism, by the way, loves scarcity. I went to visit school where they teach you that scarcity equals value.
Jerry Michalski: And what they mean, partly, is that unless there's scarcity, there's no business model, so you better create some scarcity, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, and I never, I never liked that framing at all.
Jessie Upp: Yeah, thank you for that. And then John's, version of without hoarding, it seems like that statement could be used without hoarding as well. And you said something about if you have enough, then there's no… maybe there's no tendency to, and I heard this story of a person overseas who, was with someone who was panhandling, I don't know the word these days, but…
Jessie Upp: And he, he was in the more poor part of the neighborhood, and he said, he walked by, and he's like, why don't you just go up the street in the richer part of the neighborhood? And he's like, oh, I've done that. They don't give as much.
Jessie Upp: And so…
Jessie Upp: it… I'm seeing that people, when you get enough, it's not enough ever, it's, like, evolutionary. And also, I want to bring up the book that was given to me the other day called Pendulum.
Jessie Upp: And, it's like every 40 years, we go from me to we, and not the me to we that we know of, but a different kind of, cooperative version of life that,
Jessie Upp: was spoken about, to more of individualism, and it's like a system, this just pendulum that's kind of… we're in it, and we're, not necessarily everywhere in the world, I guess, but definitely in America. I can see that.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. Sean, please.
John Warinner: I just wanna… just wanna riff off what Klaus said and what you said, Jerry, about scarcity equals abundance minus trust. In my experience, scarcity can also equal abundance minus awareness.
John Warinner: gave a presentation to a group of agricultural producers up in Walla Walla a year ago.
John Warinner: Where I went through this whole thing of the hydrographs, the stream flow, the amount of water flowing through the watershed, and I finished my presentation, and it was silent, and then this one guy spoke up and said, I don't know that I believe what you just said.
John Warinner: And, I mean, it's like, there was no conjecture or anything in it, it was just all, you know, streamflow gauges and mathematics and whatnot.
John Warinner: But it… but it drove home to me, like, here I had this pretty clear picture in my mind of the abundance
John Warinner: And these other guys in the room, like, didn't have that mental picture at all.
John Warinner: And I think trust is an issue there, but upstream of trust is… like, if you're not even aware of the abundance, or as Klaus said, if you're… your perspective, you're seeing the system like you don't have water, then water is scarce. If you have plenty of water.
John Warinner: water is abundant, and I agree, I agree with that.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. There's a bunch of interesting interlocking concepts here. Klaus was putting in the chat about Tanha and Santuti.
Jerry Michalski: different concepts, I think, from Sanskrit.
Jerry Michalski: And there's also a parigiraha, which is non-grasping, so it's similar. And these are all…
Jerry Michalski: These are… sorry, aparagraha is one of the yamas, or abstinences, of yoga, of original yoga from Patanjali. Yoga was a mental practice for a long, long, long time before it was a physical practice with asanas.
Jerry Michalski: And it has really good advice for living. It's really nicely done, and if more of us paid attention to some of the precepts there, maybe we would have more abundance collectively.
Jerry Michalski: I'm also struck with
Jerry Michalski: water, there's a name for this, sort of watershed management. There's a different word for it, but,
Jerry Michalski: Working your land with swales and other kinds of things so that you have… your land catches and holds, retains more water.
Jerry Michalski: than industrially farmed land or other kinds of lands do. And that creates an abundance of water on your property. Dave Witzel and his wife Claudia and I visited Jumping Frogs Farms in… way above Petaluma many, many years ago.
Jerry Michalski: And we were talking to the two… the couple who owned the farm, and they said, you know, there was a really bad rainstorm last season, and I was sitting at home reading a book by the fireplace, and I got a call from a neighbor who said, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, do you guys need help? And all their neighbors were industrial farmers.
Jerry Michalski: And then the neighbor was like, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, you need help, we're flooding, we have all kinds of bad things happening. And she described to us how, they had a bunch of ponds and a bunch of very absorbent land on their property. Nothing bad was happening to their property because
Jerry Michalski: it was equipped to actually soak in really nice rains, and she was not worried. She was busy, like, enjoying reading a book.
Jerry Michalski: so that's a form of abundance. Jesse, can you say a little bit more about pendulum?
Jessie Upp: Oh, well, the… the core theory is that
Jessie Upp: There's two extremes that we oscillate from me periods of, like, individual… like, self-focused, and we periods that are collective and community-focused, and this pattern is kind of like a 40-year swing between those extremes.
Jessie Upp: And where, like, there's a fulcrum of where the early 2000s
Jessie Upp: And the early 60s make opposite ends.
Jessie Upp: And it's kind of reflected in music.
Jessie Upp: And art trends, and those societal swings are…
Jessie Upp: Like, just 10-year periods where they behave in predictable ways.
Jessie Upp: And it traces back all the way back 3,000 years. And they kind of say how the East reflects the West.
Jessie Upp: 40 years…
Jessie Upp: behind, kind of thing, so I'm not sure. I haven't, like, read the whole book, but it was an interesting concept. It seems like it's mathematical, but, you know, everything's not predictable and human. But that's… it was an interesting thing to see.
Jerry Michalski: Lovely. Thank you for sharing that. I hadn't heard about the book, and, I'm really…
Jerry Michalski: It's interesting. How is it… it was written in 2012. How has it not gotten more attention?
Jessie Upp: Well, I would definitely look at it and, you know, see maybe why, but I haven't found it… I didn't go deep enough to figure that out, but I see that there might be business implications for…
Jessie Upp: You know, why successful politicians or entertainers succeed.
Jessie Upp: Based on the pendulum swing that we're in, like, certain music and certain words, like, I'm starting to hear the same kind of music that we did in the 70s right now, and there's, like, the bell bottoms, we came back, and it was a brief thing, but, you know, it just is interesting. It's enough to be, like,
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, exactly. And there's a whole class of literature on cyclical theories of history, from the Great Transition to the Fourth Turning to, I don't know, there's like a… this is a whole class of literature, but this one seems like a really pragmatic explanation. It's like, things here, here, this is how things swing.
Jessie Upp: Yeah, and, like, it's weird that, you know, we have this community-centered purpose, like, how can I serve
Jessie Upp: is, you know, a very strong book at one point that aligns with that we society, but I don't know, what is Trump? Like, it's a very interesting conversation. Thanks for asking.
Jerry Michalski: Love that. Yeah, thanks for bringing the book to our attention. I really appreciate it.
Jerry Michalski: the edition of the conversation. Stacy.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, so if I can just start from where I am and connect to what a lot of you have said, and Jerry, I totally… I think you're spot on with… I know you're spot on with the trust thing, but I want to mention how media
Stacey Druss: and billionaires and the conflicting stories are eroding that trust and how it pertains to now. Kalia put a comment in about the need for housing and free transit, and
Stacey Druss: A lot of the conversations I have are around what's happening in New York City with Mondani.
Stacey Druss: And I just want to read to you one of the comments that I got in my private messages, because it ties into some other things that are happening that have to do with free speech, and all the other cultural things that are happening that the media is a big part of. So this is the message I got.
Stacey Druss: You cunt, whole, Arab, lover, cunt. Get the fuck out of New York. That scumbag will not be mayor, you cunt.
Stacey Druss: This is just one of many that I get.
Jerry Michalski: That's Scott.
Stacey Druss: Probably.
Stacey Druss: That being said.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Stacy, why do you… why do you stay for that?
Stacey Druss: I'm speaking, excuse me.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay.
Stacey Druss: People get this all the time, and free speech is a very big issue.
Stacey Druss: I know from speaking to people in other states.
Stacey Druss: I know from my friends in Florida that there were tanks that drove by in Black neighborhoods that were meant to intimidate people.
Klaus Mager: Into not voting.
Stacey Druss: I'm very clear on what's been happening for years, and I'm very clear that nobody's gonna shut me up.
Stacey Druss: I was out the other night, and somebody… a friend came up to me and hugged me, and she said, am I going to get put on a list? And she said it half-jokingly, but we weren't really joking. Anyway, what I wanted… so I got in a conversation, and my conversations now are mostly local, and by…
Stacey Druss: So, I put up a post, and it was about Cat Stevens tickets being $632, because the argument I get from
Stacey Druss: people that are affluent in my community is all the businesses are gonna leave New York City if we elect Montani. I'm sorry, this is my new foster dog, and there's a story behind him, too.
Jerry Michalski: Hmm, okay.
Stacey Druss: So, I have people that are now defending the billionaires, and they're afraid that the billionaires are going to leave New York City if, heaven forbid, we have affordable housing and free transportation.
Stacey Druss: This gives me an opportunity to speak to them. The gentleman that posted that, I then took his post.
Stacey Druss: and publicly put it right up there, because after I looked through his page and saw all of his Jesus quotes.
Stacey Druss: I wanted the community to see who this guy is. I'm not afraid of him.
Stacey Druss: So, in answer to your question, Gil, I keep doing it because I know that there are good people on both sides, especially in my community. And I know that there was a lot of manipulation. Very quick, short story that will also answer that, if I may.
Stacey Druss: Well, maybe… You know, I'm gonna stop, take care of the dog.
Stacey Druss: And then hopefully I'll get the opportunity to speak again later.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, let me do that, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Cool.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Kevin?
Kevin Jones: Yeah, abundance. So I'm doing a thing to create it. I'd like to describe, if I could, for a minute.
Kevin Jones: You know, we lost our house, and it's actually in the phrase, uninhabitable. We didn't lose it. It could be redone. And one in six people in my neighborhood, I just want to know, a low-status, unincorporated neighborhood, lost their houses. Higher… highest of anything in the
Kevin Jones: In the southeast, and
Kevin Jones: So we're gonna do a non-profit housing fund.
Kevin Jones: And because it's a non-profit, it means everybody can talk about it. And so, you know, a PTA officer can talk to a volleyball coach about it. And it'll be community-directed capital, and the community will get more money back than the affluent people who write big checks.
Kevin Jones: And so we're going to use that to help this low-status neighborhood have a seat at the table. And there's starting a Latino business association, just the population grew by 18%, and it was the cheapest place, so…
Kevin Jones: It's a lot of Latino, but there's no…
Kevin Jones: codified way to… for aid groups to write them a check. The Restaurant Association had an association, and so there was a restaurant
Kevin Jones: Employee Support Fund, but the food trucks and caterers and Latino folks, there was no place to write a check, so they're creating an entity to be at the table, and it matters right now, because there are these small area plans being put out, and that's, like.
Kevin Jones: redesigning this place after the disaster, right? And one of them is the counties, and it's broad, and it's messy, but then there's a separate
Kevin Jones: small area plan that's competing to be the story, and it's led by people with the Chamber of Commerce and realtors, and they only do outreach to Latinos, you know, on one occasion or whatever. But obviously, they're… they would cause displacement, right? Because they're… they're motivated
Kevin Jones: for increasing property values, and increasing property values puts the people who were at risk of
Kevin Jones: Because it's a place people already fled to. It's $100,000 less per house than the rest of the county, so more Latino, more…
Kevin Jones: Black folks that got, pushed away. And so we're going to create a political power using a fund, and then the fund will also have to increase biodiversity, because everybody's house is at risk because the ground got scoured.
Kevin Jones: So we have dead soil, and you need biodiversity to hold the soil to reduce the housing risk, so we can, we can, you know, we can…
Kevin Jones: we can measure the housing success by the health of the river, and then along with the number of people who are housed. So I think it's going to be a real popular story.
Kevin Jones: And and we got a whole lot of the partners engaged, and I got… you know, the best community organizer says this is a really good plan, and folks who are, you know.
Kevin Jones: there's a real credible community group that we're designing it for, called Suanova Communities Together, and they're the…
Kevin Jones: social safety net below everybody else, you know, when you have no rent or a utility bill, you go to them, and they're doing about $60,000 a month. They've done that really good job, and they realize, well, we need to solve housing, you know.
Kevin Jones: 400 people lost their houses, so, so we're gonna start with housing and create biodiversity. So I think it should be pretty fun, and, you know, might even include my house, who knows, you know? So…
Jerry Michalski: And that should be fun.
Jerry Michalski: Kevin, thank you for describing that. It is just curious, is that activity convincing you to stay closer to Suanoa? Because I think you've been pulled… you've been pulling… you've been pulling yourselves away from Swanonoa because it's just been so sad?
Kevin Jones: Yeah, you know, that's interesting, because we moved to the River Arts District, which is a highly,
Kevin Jones: access place. You know, it's… it's where the artists are, and they want to be more like this road in Santa Fe where rich folks come and buy art, and they don't live in the loss of being displaced is not a problem, and so the Chamber of Commerce and the Tourism Development is,
Kevin Jones: all behind the artists who were taking their well-resourced artists, taking their future in their hands, and so it's like, not much for me to do. And then this came along that somebody reached out and said, you know.
Kevin Jones: could you use some of this neighborhood economic stuff around the problems we're trying to address? You know, they're trying to do
Kevin Jones: food and housing and transportation, but housing is the one that's making everything worse. So we're gonna, you know, they lead, they're Latino and biracial and all that, and, you know, we're designing it for this really trusted community entity.
Kevin Jones: That has, you know, housing groups around it, mountain home, mountain housing, and habitat, and land trusts, you know, all kinds of big stakeholder resources around it.
Kevin Jones: But I don't think nobody's ever measured, you know, low-income housing to reducing risk by biodiversity, so I think that's kind of an intriguing,
Kevin Jones: Question that we want to do both of those things.
Jerry Michalski: I love that. Thanks, Kevin. And then you're making me wonder many things, one of which is, why aren't property and casualty insurance companies all over this? Why aren't they all into, sort of, the ecological ways to reduce environmental risks, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera? They should be…
Jerry Michalski: They should be promoting, funding, explaining, storytelling, everything, and all the.
Kevin Jones: What are you doing?
Jerry Michalski: is, like, calculating, you know, calculating stats and then raising rates, or pulling out of dangerous reasons… regions because, well, it's uninsurable. We did what we could. We raised rates as far as we could, and then it's, you know, uninsurable. That maybe I'm just not perceiving their efforts, but…
Kevin Jones: some startups who were doing community-embedded insurance. You know, you're not able to make a profit on
Kevin Jones: property now with climate things. It needs to be collectively owned, and the return goes back into reducing risk. That model makes sense. You know, the extracted profits, you know, in property insurance is short-term, and you need to put it into something that will
Kevin Jones: be there when things go worse, you know. So, we're linking in community-embedded insurances. You know, people are pooling and sharing their resources together, sharing risk.
Kevin Jones: So, you know, and then the community owns the balance sheet.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, yeah, so let me pull on one more thing you said, which is, it seems like, terrible climate events are making places
Jerry Michalski: uninsurable or uninvestable as real estate, which is driving the collective… not collectivization, but community land trusts. Basically, the restructuring of ownership or stewardship of land, which is a good thing.
Kevin Jones: The one session I'm moderating is the one that puts all weird stuff together. It's collective purchasing, and it's the library of things from Shareable, and it's a real grassroots crowdfunding. And so, what if you just pooled and shared your resources, but then you found a way to
Kevin Jones: for the community to invest alongside your pooling and sharing. I mean, nobody's done that. That would be a…
Kevin Jones: A really easy, you know,
Kevin Jones: too adhesive approach. We're looking for some of these things that you could launch together, where if you launch one, it helps the other. And some of those things are happening.
Kevin Jones: You know, there is infrastructure coming, you know, and so…
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. That was great. Really, super… I love what you're… what you're working on. Stacy…
Kevin Jones: Should be fun.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Stacey Druss: I have a very cynical, conspiratorial answer to your question about insurance companies, and that is that I do believe they want people to lose their properties so that they can be bought up.
Stacey Druss: Very simple.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, I can smell the cynicism on that one. Thanks, Stacey.
Jerry Michalski: Pete…
Pete Kaminski: I wanted to chime in with some thoughts about that answer, too. As Stacy, I really like yours, and I think that happens, certainly. I think there's also a structural thing in the way that we run our economy, and hierarchical
Pete Kaminski: corporate entities and their decision-making. I think it's easy for people on the ground to see a situation and go, you know, there's a thoughtful system-friendly approach to
Pete Kaminski: Making the situation better.
Pete Kaminski: But when you report to somebody who reports to somebody, reports to somebody, it goes up to the boardroom and the upper management, and they don't have that same nuance of decision making. So I think… I think we see over and over…
Pete Kaminski: Big hierarchical, corporate structures make really dumb decisions, not because…
Pete Kaminski: It's the best kind of decision to make, but we've rewarded the creation of these big, dumb hierarchical things that are…
Pete Kaminski: theoretically kind of easy to manage, and… and just accrete size. So…
Pete Kaminski: So, of course, they make dumb decisions, instead of thoughtful, systems-friendly approaches to situations on the ground.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: I… I… I would love to hear from foresighted.
Jerry Michalski: business folks who are doing the opposite somewhere, that would be great. It'd be a joy to my heart.
Jerry Michalski: to have people jump into this conversation, like, no, no, no, we had this initiative, we did this thing, look, look, look, it's, you know, all over the place, but I'm not… I'm not seeing it yet.
Jessie Upp: While I'm working on one.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent.
Jessie Upp: talking with the City of Seattle, I'm talking with, cooperatives, and we're starting to visualize,
Jessie Upp: place-based resources, not just talent, but also goods and services, so we can match them and start… I realize that when we start visualizing these resources, you can start seeing the gaps that Stacy starts seeing, you know.
Jessie Upp: when you verbalize that, that's one thing, but when you have… when you can… when you can visualize the dumb decisions and start looking at data-informed decisions, visualization really helps. So, Kevin.
Jessie Upp: I have lots of people who are stand for housing. It doesn't sound like you have an actual… you have everyone you need at the table for housing, but as we move away from conceptual definitions of abundance.
Jessie Upp: to meeting people's needs in a specific, place-based community, I sincerely believe that visualization of talents and goods and services.
Kevin Jones: Yeah.
Jessie Upp: supports the needs of that community, and I would love to support and talk with you, because when we're working with land trusts, that's a perfect example of utilizing the fingers of, the people that they're working with. And so I'll just place… I'll put the mapping project we're putting down.
Kevin Jones: I would love to talk to you about that. You know, I've done some pretty serious mapping. I was telling this story, if I can tell you a brief mapping story, it's kind of interesting, I think. I was working with Mark Beam, as some of you know, and Gary Bowles.
Kevin Jones: And we were mapping, the distribution of malaria nets in Uganda, linked to the Global Fund on AIDS and, you know, etc. And we were able to show that the nets were going to where Musveni's cronies were, as opposed to where the malaria area, there's a gray market in it.
Kevin Jones: And, you know, I was working with Jeffrey Sachs, which you should never do, at the Earth Institute, and he said, you know, I'm gonna hold up $40 million to Ms. Venney, and they said, dude.
Kevin Jones: we move billions a year. You know, 70… $30 million is not going to make us have a conscience. You know, we won't take your money, we're taking everybody else's money, don't worry about it. And so he didn't realize that showing clearly that they were wrong
Kevin Jones: would not make them do… change their behavior at all, because the guy misread the power in the room. I mean, that's the problem with Jeffrey Sachs. He lives in this abstract world where he thought $30 million was going to make a billionaire grovel. So anyway, yeah, no, I believe in mapping. I think this really needs it.
Jessie Upp: And working with Uganda, I'm working with someone right now who, they haven't had food. You know, aid was removed from President Trump.
Jessie Upp: They haven't had food for two and a half weeks.
Jessie Upp: And they're like, They don't… they're not a resilient, self-efficient.
Kevin Jones: Yeah. And so…
Jessie Upp: All they need is cook… used cooking oil to create soap, so they can create hygiene and have the business angle that he's going on. But right now, it's just like food. They don't have it. Two and a half weeks now.
Jessie Upp: It's just really… it's… it's saddening, so…
Kevin Jones: I'd love to talk to you later in October, but my conference is coming up, like, in 3 days.
Kevin Jones: visualization for this project when I get back home. I think it's really important. Yeah, there's a lot of stories you can… because there's trails with markers and things here, right? I mean, so you could embed your content, you know, along this trail with this story. I mean, this is, you know, this trail is where the first massacre was, you know.
Kevin Jones: That kind of thing. So, yeah, there's a lot of…
Kevin Jones: Yeah, because, you know, people are doing greenways. There's a lot of money for greenways, and the greenways get markers, and there's QR codes, etc. There's stories you could,
Kevin Jones: You know, because the housing fund will be lower risk if we're more biodiverse. So, you know, that's… people want to picture those two things together.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, guys.
Jerry Michalski: Gil.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, I love the conversation about mapping both physical mapping and systems mapping, and causal loops, and all sorts of ways of helping people see and perceive the complexity they know. There's a guy named Scott Spann, who's done remarkable work with, multi-stakeholder community mapping, where people, a large group of people, build the maps together.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, you know, there'll be a… there'll be a starting… maybe a starting point hypothetical map, and the question is, okay, what… what in your world are you not seeing on the wall? Put it on.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And they keep doing that until it's a complete representation of all the stakeholders in the community. It's driven some remarkable projects of transformation. Kevin, I want to connect you up with him.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: After the conference, perhaps. And, I'd love to be in this conversation you guys are having. Back on the insurance… excuse me… back on the insurance theme.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, we see this really starkly in the aftermath of the LA fires, where the state's response was, let's lighten the regulations so people can rebuild faster.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Rather than, let's have regulations that have.
Kevin Jones: I gotta go. Thanks, y'all.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: like Kevin, that has… that encourages people to build buildings that are fire resilient.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And we've all seen pictures of earthquakes where entire neighborhoods are flattened and one house is still standing.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Or floods, where somebody… you know, there's a community in Florida that survived the hurricane, the last round of hurricanes, completely intact.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Because of their land use planning, sponge, you know, sponge land use, resilient buildings, and so forth. So, there are ways at that. And there's an opportunity for insurance. The precedent was 100 and some odd years ago in Fireman's Fund, which was doing business safety insurance.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Started to provide free safety audits for the businesses they were insuring to come in and show them how to reduce their risk.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: At no cost to the businesses, and, you know, crazy like a fox for Fireman's Fund, because it meant less payouts for damage for them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And that's a model that has been, you know, mostly honored in the breach in the industry since then, but there's enormous opportunity for strategic insurance play. Joshua Harrison from the Center for the Study of the Force Major and I and our GPTs are working on some white papers on laying out a different kind of insurance, business-focused insurance industry strategy, whereby companies could do the kind of things we're talking about.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Rather than just saying, oh, no, the calculations say we can't insure you, so we can write off entire states, and screw you. Very different approach.
Jerry Michalski: We're going at warp speed, we haven't even hit the hour yet. Why don't we slow down for a second and, take a pause, and I'll bring us back in just a second.
Jerry Michalski: just reflecting on the… I'm looking at the chat a little bit, and this conversation, and I'm realizing that
Jerry Michalski: There seem to be, from my amateur perspective, many things we've created as policy, law, regulation that lead to scarcity or break abundance. One of those is zoning.
Jerry Michalski: One of those, for example, is we created wilderness areas and national parks where we drove people who understood how to manage the landscape off the land.
Jerry Michalski: We don't, you know, don't let people live in there.
Jerry Michalski: Which I think is a mistake. And we're now, in some places, they're reconsidering the mistake and thinking, oh, maybe we should reverse track on that, but it's only a couple hundred years… it's 100 years plus too late.
Jerry Michalski: On those things, but it seems like we bake… we make a lot of decisions that aren't based on
Jerry Michalski: Rational, systemic thinking. Then we bake those in as laws, and then we, you know, 50 years later, go, gosh, that didn't turn out so well.
Jerry Michalski: And I don't like that we do that as societies.
Jerry Michalski: Klaus, please.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, the conversation just sparked, something. We signed a contract with this group here, the, Archae Generations, and they are headquartered in Kenya, in Nairobi.
Klaus Mager: And the intention is to connect, to connect local farmers, groups of local farmers, with resources that are available within the EU, mostly, in mostly EU-funded, but also
Klaus Mager: within… within Africa. So they have… they already have 40 locations mapped out in Indonesia, different African states, and a couple of Mediterranean countries. They're providing the AI intelligence.
Klaus Mager: technology embedded in their… in their system, and I'm, you know, personally developing a strategic frame on how to engage, but the challenge here really is
Klaus Mager: That, it requires a change in behavior of subsistence farmers
Klaus Mager: We have to combine them, first of all, into groups, because…
Klaus Mager: a small farmer is just not cost-effective to… to represent in any form or shape, so we are combining groups of farmers into, like, a hundred of them. They are governed by elders. It's a non-hierarchical system. No, it's all circular management structures.
Klaus Mager: And by combining them, and then consolidating their behavior, meaning we are developing, a regenerative practice that's, that's…
Klaus Mager: that's the right one for their location and for their markets, meaning the types of crops they're coring, the methods they're using, are going to be uniquely tailored to their particular location. We can then tokenize this, put it in contract forms.
Klaus Mager: tokenize it, and then bring it back to, the, the, European Union inst… agencies, you know, that are, that are distributing these funds. So there's a, there's a pretty disciplined,
Klaus Mager: requirement for this entire contracting scheme and for the entire MRV, I mean, measurements, reporting, and values structure that goes with it. But I think the… the…
Klaus Mager: The real challenge is that we have… we are floating, you know, at the theoretical and policy level, with some great ideas, lots of money in there.
Klaus Mager: But there is the vertical link missing, you know, how do you… how do you operationalize this, on the ground?
Klaus Mager: So we… so the AI system that we now have developed, now it's a 5-agent, system that tracks the entire supply chain from farm to market.
Klaus Mager: And then, then there's a sixth agent, it's the enterprise agent, where we are customizing to a specific location, to, to,
Klaus Mager: To then know, what, what is going on in, in these, in these individual account… accounting groups.
Klaus Mager: But that's really, in general, you know, the… it doesn't help to, to… what USAID did, for example, is buy food from American farmers and put it into, subsistence markets.
Klaus Mager: That doesn't help, because the moment your food goes away, the whole system collapses, right? There was no attempt
Klaus Mager: To assist these subsistence groups to become self-sufficient and to grow their own food.
Klaus Mager: You know, and to… and so the emphasis is on, let's sell them GMO seeds, which is actually really what happened. You know, Bill Gates all over the place, building synthetic nitrogen fertilizer plants in Africa. So the type of help that was given.
Klaus Mager: was really very selfish, you know? I mean, it was… it was not, let's make these guys independent so they can live. So that's, that's, the, the overarching, you know,
Klaus Mager: Strategic intent that we have, you know, is to connect these available resources, you know, with on-the-ground activity.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Klaus. I've heard some much more positive stories about development aid, because there have been some thorough and eviscerating critiques of development aid. You know, hey, we ship food in and the local farmers can't make a living anymore, etc, etc, but I think that
Jerry Michalski: somewhere in some places, and I don't know who but where, it's more nuanced than that, and they have been trying to teach
Jerry Michalski: farmers to, you know, bootstrap farmers to get back into business, etc, etc. I don't… I don't know that it's as vicious as it just sounded from what you just said.
Klaus Mager: It is as vicious as I was just saying.
Jerry Michalski: Is it that bad?
Klaus Mager: It is horrible. I mean, they destroyed entire landscapes with GMO seeds and synthetic nitrogen. Inserting synthetic nitrogen into the arena was just… I mean, it's just criminal.
Klaus Mager: And this is how I've known Bill Gates. And I don't submit bad intentions to someone like Bill Gates. He probably thought he's doing the right thing.
Klaus Mager: He's actually embedded, he's a major investor in Monsanto, you know, he's actually embedded with these groups, developing customized high-yield seeds and, you know, their chemical support structure, but it is… it was just devastating. And then… and you're dealing with completely uneducated.
Klaus Mager: Subsistence farmers, you know, and you don't have the extensions and all that support.
Klaus Mager: So, no, it's, it's… but Africa is absolutely waking up, you know, to what happened to them, and to make these changes. So, we are actually partnered with the University of Nairobi Extension.
Klaus Mager: To, where they are guiding the process and providing us the credentials that we need in order to, you know, be package this, up the chain.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. Devin, please.
Stacey Druss: Muted.
Doug Breitbart: just to augment the Bill Gates ironies,
Doug Breitbart: So, his big thing was… were these… these nets, mosquito netting.
Doug Breitbart: In service to, you know, addressing the malaria problem.
Doug Breitbart: But as Klaus just mentioned, he's up to his neck in Monsanto.
Doug Breitbart: And… A friend of mine, Bernie Krause, who was a bio… Ecological bioacoustician.
Doug Breitbart: You know, pointed out that those chemicals are eradicating.
Doug Breitbart: Amphibians.
Doug Breitbart: products.
Doug Breitbart: Frogs eat mosquitoes.
Doug Breitbart: Like, if you want to go natural systems, and you want to go…
Doug Breitbart: Regenerative, and you want to go non-colonial, non-patriarchal, non-capitalist.
Doug Breitbart: And actually speak to needs and problems.
Doug Breitbart: That is not what Bill Gates is in the business of doing.
Doug Breitbart: Or any of them, for that matter.
Doug Breitbart: The billionaires, you know, are centered in… their billions are centered in capital.
Doug Breitbart: And everything they do is centered in capital and monopolization of.
Doug Breitbart: Which now extends to food, and GMO seed, and all of it.
Doug Breitbart: I wanted to loop back around.
Doug Breitbart: But, Pete, if you wanted to be on this subject, then I'll stop here and come back after you.
Doug Breitbart: Because I wanted to loop back around to… Something that was raised.
Pete Kaminski: Go ahead, Doug.
Doug Breitbart: So… Somebody mentioned, causal loop mapping.
Doug Breitbart: And so, I'm… I'm at the genesis point, so this is really early, but,
Doug Breitbart: Some of you know Gene Bellinger, who's sort of, you know, the GOAT of causal loop mapping and model making of very complex systems.
Doug Breitbart: And… And he did a Klaus with causal loop mapping and AI.
Doug Breitbart: And he sort of developed, you know, Version 1 of a…
Doug Breitbart: of an AI template to augment his causal mapping exercise.
Doug Breitbart: And it sort of caught my eye, because… Causal loop mapping…
Doug Breitbart: done properly, human-mediated. This is not automating causal loops analysis, but it's… it…
Doug Breitbart: augmenting it with AI dramatically speeds it up.
Doug Breitbart: And also, holds… at the end of the process, holds the… The promise of
Doug Breitbart: Surfacing causes and things, variables, that.
Doug Breitbart: The person doing the mapping might have missed, but
Doug Breitbart: it… because of the volume of data and speed, it makes connections, right? So it can deepen the richness of the output.
Doug Breitbart: Well, in parallel to that.
Doug Breitbart: I've been working in folks who have frameworks addressing the soft stuff, which is the human, the emotional.
Doug Breitbart: Dimensions of people Co-creating together, and also people engaged in dealing with
Doug Breitbart: crisis areas and challenges, global challenges. And so… There's a… there's a possibility…
Doug Breitbart: to stir into… Gene's causal loop mapping is dealing with nouns, it's dealing with the physical world, it's dealing with, you know, all of the mechanistic Industrial Revolution-oriented ingredients of a system.
Doug Breitbart: And… but there's a guy named Bill Smith who has a framework called AIC, Appreciation, Influence, and Control.
Doug Breitbart: Which is a rather elaborate framework, but applicable in a very systems-oriented way.
Doug Breitbart: that speaks to… Purpose?
Doug Breitbart: and power.
Doug Breitbart: So, as an informing inquiry into guiding decision making.
Doug Breitbart: Factoring for those dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: So the balancing act between
Doug Breitbart: Appreciation, which is sort of, you know, the ideal and the goal, the source, the purpose end of it. And then control is the mechanics, and the doing, and the machinery, and the infrastructure, and the what, where, when, why.
Doug Breitbart: So, I believe that framework could be integrated into genes mapping to factor for those dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: So that's piece number two. Piece number three is somebody who we just lost, a guy named Barry Court.
Doug Breitbart: And Barry was unique. He was a systems guy.
Doug Breitbart: And one of his things was emotion in education.
Doug Breitbart: And he developed a framework for integrating the emotional dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: sort of… Enabling or valuing weighting of them.
Doug Breitbart: as variable.
Doug Breitbart: framework plugin within other analytical contexts. And I think that could also be integrated into this causal loop mapping. So now we're starting to actually
Doug Breitbart: Three-dimensionally, four-dimensionally expand the nature of the inquiry and the analysis in looking at complex system dynamics and what's really going on.
Doug Breitbart: And then, you know, clearly, why? Like, what's all this about? So, Danella Meadows, right, who's known for
Doug Breitbart: finding the concept of leverage points. So you have a causal loop map, you know, like, Gene's… one of Gene's greatest, grandest was the Middle East. Like, 5,000 nodes. It was insane and magnificent. But, like, what are the nodes
Doug Breitbart: That hold the potential.
Doug Breitbart: For the most impact.
Doug Breitbart: In terms of where do you target?
Doug Breitbart: And Donella Meadows sort of surfaced that concept of leverage points.
Doug Breitbart: So… If we could do this richer mapping, factoring for the human and the being dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: And we can then identify leverage points, and we can have the output of that provide guidance and insight
Doug Breitbart: To inform and enable better decision-making on a policy level, or on a financial and funding and resource level.
Doug Breitbart: Or on a multi-stakeholder level, maximizing across
Doug Breitbart: all of those dimensions. You know, Start to have something.
Doug Breitbart: Now, with all of that said, you know, enter yours truly.
Doug Breitbart: So, to go to the metaphor of the still picture to motion pictures?
Doug Breitbart: So, because of the speed and robustness of AI's capability as an enabling technology, not a source or driver.
Doug Breitbart: Now take everything I just said and imagine that as a running process.
Doug Breitbart: With the variable inputs on the front end being real-time.
Doug Breitbart: So, it's an exponential leveling up.
Doug Breitbart: Of… and creating a mechanism for a living, real-time causal loop analysis mapping.
Doug Breitbart: Tracking of leverage points, tracking of changes.
Doug Breitbart: I think it's possible to build this.
Doug Breitbart: And I'm at the beginning.
Doug Breitbart: And I welcome anybody that wants to, you know.
Doug Breitbart: like, sign on and help, because I'm not a… I'm not Pete. Like, I wish I was you, Pete. I'm not you. Like, I'm technology.
Jerry Michalski: Alas, none of us has peed, I don't know how that works.
Doug Breitbart: Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm a dude.
Jerry Michalski: Only Pete is Pete.
Doug Breitbart: You know, I'm a dilett, I'm not, like… I don't… you know, I have a clear vision of the technologies involved in the pieces. I don't think it's that complicated.
Doug Breitbart: In terms of anything needing to be invented, it's really about just…
Doug Breitbart: pressing it all into place in service. But anyway…
Doug Breitbart: I really think we, you know.
Doug Breitbart: If possible, it would be really great to level up the dimensionality of the inquiry and the analysis, and orientation being brought.
Doug Breitbart: to these contexts.
Doug Breitbart: So, I want to end with the last punctuation mark, which is I'm working
Doug Breitbart: with a woman named Louise McCullough in Ireland who's focused on
Doug Breitbart: Survivors of domestic abuse in a woman, 30-year-old…
Doug Breitbart: Young lawyer, brilliant woman in, in, Nairobi, same territory, but…
Doug Breitbart: Supporting women coming out the back end in entrepreneurial endeavors and community-level support, and intermediating with other aid sources and all the rest.
Doug Breitbart: The woman in Nairobi, Tessie, shared a piece of a puzzle. So she has this nonprofit foundation, she's bootstrapped, she's helping women, she's engaged in rubber meets the road, doing what she's doing.
Doug Breitbart: And the problem she shared was that, based on the culture of corruption in Nairobi,
Doug Breitbart: That the women that she's training to be the care provider, you know, benefits caseworker folk in her foundation to the women in the community.
Doug Breitbart: have so much distrust that in her offering to train them to serve the foundation.
Doug Breitbart: they want to know what's in it for her, like, why is she offering them this for free? Like, why is she offering to train them?
Doug Breitbart: As a, as, you know, like, there's nothing free, like, where are the strings?
Doug Breitbart: And I raise that just because what it points to is the weak link is always in humans being human beings.
Doug Breitbart: The weak link is that people are people, they're not machinery, they're not parts of a machine, they're not cogs.
Doug Breitbart: And the soft dimensions, the cultural dimensions, the fear and belief and deprivation and trauma dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: Make or break it?
Doug Breitbart: And 85-90% of everything that exists today
Doug Breitbart: Doesn't even acknowledge they exist, much less recognize that they're the leverage point.
Doug Breitbart: And I apologize for the length of that run, but, I'm complete.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent. Thanks, Doug.
Jerry Michalski: Got a lot of things in the room, appreciate that.
Jerry Michalski: P…
Pete Kaminski: That was great, Doug. No need for an apology. And hit me up about the Causal Loop, mealtime thingy. That sounds fun.
Pete Kaminski: I… since we're on the topic of abundance and… and… and maybe, in a way, kind of the indigestion, that comes… seems to come from it, or… or, lack of, lack of appropriate distribution or something.
Pete Kaminski: I wanted to make a shout out… I wish Ken were here to say this instead of me. I want to make a shout out to Hospicing Modernity, the book by Vanessa Andrealdi. If you haven't seen it, she approaches the
Pete Kaminski: the thing that we're in, the thing that we've built. She calls it… the longer title, the longer name she's got for it is Modernity Slash Coloniality.
Pete Kaminski: She approaches modeling where we are.
Pete Kaminski: and then what to think about it, and what to do with that without paralysis in a way that is different from anything else I've seen. And so, if you haven't seen it, I think you owe yourself a deep look at, you know, the approach that she's got.
Pete Kaminski: And Ken doesn't have a lot of time in his life, I think, right now, because he's starting to move, but Ken is kind of a central resource for me in finding out more about the book, and we've got some of us doing…
Pete Kaminski: some inquiry about it, partly through Signal and other places.
Pete Kaminski: So, that's kind of it.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, Rach.
Jerry Michalski: We're having abundant thoughts about abundance.
Jerry Michalski: Any other perspectives? You want to bring some other… some other angle on the question in?
Jerry Michalski: I keep coming back to the notion that consumerism creates the illusion of abundance, that has been…
Jerry Michalski: Entrancing for many people.
Jerry Michalski: There, there are…
Jerry Michalski: I'm using videos on YouTube of North Koreans, or people who grew up in the Soviet Union.
Jerry Michalski: coming to an American hypermarket, or some other thing, and just seeing
Jerry Michalski: How much stuff there is. How much… how much stuff is available?
Jerry Michalski: I haven't been in a department store for a while, but last few times I went through, like, the women's… women's… I used to go shopping with my mom a bunch.
Jerry Michalski: And, you know, the women's clothing areas are just endless racks, and I look around, I'm like, hmm, wouldn't wear that, wouldn't wear that, wouldn't like to wear that, that looks ugly. Oh my god, what happened there? And just acres and acres and acres of stuff out, in the hope that somebody will pick it up and take it home and buy it with money.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, please. Stacy, has your cynicism heightened or dampened a little bit with the call?
Stacey Druss: Well, that's actually what my comment's about.
Stacey Druss: So, I recognize that my cynicism may be a result that, from an energetic point of view.
Stacey Druss: I am actually where Trump Begin.
Stacey Druss: I am at the heart
Stacey Druss: of where he began, where consumerism is, where capitalism is. I'm in New York City. I know his type, I know the types of the people that surround him, probably more than most of you in this room. I also know types like you.
Stacey Druss: But I grew up around the types of people that he grew up around, on all different economic levels, so that could have a piece of it. Because, as I've said many times, I can get into his mindset.
Stacey Druss: The difference is, I have a different morality and a different set of ethics, which, as we've noted many times, doesn't work as well to be successful in business.
Stacey Druss: So now to get back to the trust piece of it, and the leverage points.
Stacey Druss: I've consistently, because I'm in the soft space.
Stacey Druss: I'm working on building trust and building bridges. And that's where Romeo comes in. Romeo is the guy on my lap.
Stacey Druss: Romeo came to me because, last week in a NIAC
Stacey Druss: space, a call came out, an urgent need for temporary foster care for this adorable little dog.
Stacey Druss: And you guys know how much Marley meant to me, and people keep saying, are you gonna get another dog? And as much as I loved Marley, I didn't want the responsibility. I'm loving my life. I'm out 5 nights a week, I'm on the music scene, I'm independent, I'm like a teenager. I like it.
Stacey Druss: But I knew this dog was for me, because nobody's gonna take care of him better than I can.
Stacey Druss: Well, here's the story of Romeo.
Stacey Druss: Romeo's father was picked up by ICE as he was dropping his kids off at camp.
Stacey Druss: And because he was the sole provider.
Stacey Druss: His wife and children no longer have a home. So until they can find their home, That accepts dogs.
Stacey Druss: I'm taking care of Romeo.
Stacey Druss: Now, in my town.
Stacey Druss: me and Romeo go out and meet people, the way me and Marley used to meet people.
Stacey Druss: And he's become the ambassador. So I make sure, because I can usually get a sense of where somebody is
Stacey Druss: In their heart space, let's say.
Stacey Druss: And so, people that may not have had compassion or empathy for Romeo's family, have total compassion for Romeo.
Stacey Druss: They also get A different way of looking at the situation.
Stacey Druss: So, I mean, you might find it amusing if you know who Curtis Sliwa is.
Stacey Druss: I call him, misogynist.
Stacey Druss: Four-time married vigilante liar, but that's just me. But he's now campaigning for animal rights.
Stacey Druss: Which confirms to me what I already knew, that these people actually love animals, or many of them, at least the ones that criss-cross do.
Stacey Druss: Anyway, the point I'm trying to make, what was the point, is this is Romeo, and he's going to be with me for a while, and hopefully I'll take some time to write something up on Facebook, because that's the world I play in. So, Gil, to your point.
Stacey Druss: Those people know me.
Stacey Druss: I've been speaking there for 10 years.
Stacey Druss: And whether they like me or hate me, for the most part, the people that know me
Stacey Druss: They know that what I'm saying is me. I am true to my character. So whether you like my character or you hate my character, you can trust my character.
Stacey Druss: So… For me, it's a matter of trust.
Stacey Druss: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Stacey.
Jerry Michalski: Alex.
Alex Kladitis: I'm gonna move slightly away from everything you've said, so…
Alex Kladitis: Jess, if you're still on track with this path.
Alex Kladitis: Would you like to speak first, rather than…
Alex Kladitis: Me, kind of, derailing the conversation somewhat.
Jessie Upp: No, I wanted to kind of more converge everyone together, so I will go more at the end. Thank you.
Alex Kladitis: Okay, let me scatter them, then, in the first place.
Jerry Michalski: Cool.
Alex Kladitis: It's very interesting what you've said, and for me, for my mind, the way my mind works, it's all very interesting, and…
Alex Kladitis: The thing that I always think about, though, I live in a world of…
Alex Kladitis: my mental picture of the world, I should say, is one of special interests doing their thing.
Alex Kladitis: Bigger special interest is, of course, capitalism.
Alex Kladitis: And it pushes and drives In a way that says abundance is…
Alex Kladitis: A lot of everything that, as a lot of you have said, is not really needed.
Alex Kladitis: And trying to convince people to step back, even if you try and convince 5 people to step back, there's another million over there doing whatever we don't want them to do, because it's…
Alex Kladitis: Wasting resources, etc.
Alex Kladitis: And I just wonder, the way you think, it's actually a question for you guys, is…
Alex Kladitis: We're talking about it, we're saying the right things, and believe the right things.
Alex Kladitis: But how are we going to change anything other than talking about the right things? You know, is it sort of…
Alex Kladitis: There's too few of us, there's too few across the world.
Alex Kladitis: And this is a systemic thing, that's all I always keep going on about, is the systemic things are pushing in.
Alex Kladitis: And, you know, at the back of my mind, I think, if you take the Amish as a subculture, sorry, if I use the wrong word, I apologize.
Alex Kladitis: Whatever they are.
Alex Kladitis: And then… but there… there's a few of those sort of communities that are…
Alex Kladitis: A living on the benefit of everybody else.
Alex Kladitis: Accepting them, that they are as they are, but…
Alex Kladitis: They're being nurtured, in a way.
Alex Kladitis: And that's not how the real world works, and how are we gonna change that without being dictatorial about it?
Alex Kladitis: It's just your thoughts, I don't think we're going to change it, but… Anybody have any?
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Alex.
Jerry Michalski: If you have suggestions or answers for Alex, climb in the queue, please. Let's go to Jesse.
Jessie Upp: Great question, I think I, you know, we're asking that every day of ourselves, and…
Jessie Upp: And in order to unify and change… be the change I wish to see in this call, in this community of Jerry's and all us.
Jessie Upp: I have continuously tried to map
Jessie Upp: The intelligence in this room? It's incredible.
Jessie Upp: We have 9 people on the OGM room,
Jessie Upp: Stacy doesn't really, you know, she wanted to have a virtual room that's open 24-7. I created that. It's available, Stacy, let's connect.
Stacey Druss: I don't want a virtual room, though, I'm sorry.
Jessie Upp: Well, this is a virtual room, you and me, right here in this call, and so I would love to create conversation, because I believe that answer that you just raised is born out of community. It depends on which community you're in, so if you're in a local-based community, that answer's different than if you're in an OGM community.
Jessie Upp: So, depending on who you're with, that answer emerges.
Jessie Upp: So, I loved the prompt at the beginning of this call, and the questions were answered based on different life stages, different consciousness levels, different needs.
Jessie Upp: And…
Jessie Upp: And we're just kind of resonating with the world, as we all have different perspectives and different needs, but if we wanted to start honing in and converging at least just this community, and see where those touchpoints are, and as Doug was bringing up.
Jessie Upp: let's go. I am ready with… to… to soar here, because, talking is one thing, and… and,
Jessie Upp: And converging and acting is another, so…
Jessie Upp: I'll put in the link again. And Stacy, you and I, let's talk afterwards and figure out what would work for you, because I want to serve you, and how you are… you are amazing in community, and I want to… I want your inspiration to be, a seed.
Stacey Druss: Thank you.
Stacey Druss: Can I just reset?
Jerry Michalski: Yes, yes, please.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, let me explain.
Stacey Druss: This community has served me. This is the virtual world. So, Jesse, what your… what you created, that's to serve others. I already felt, like…
Stacey Druss: it's… it's almost like going back… what you're doing, and what I hope I inspired you to create, is deconstructing
Stacey Druss: what I already lived into.
Stacey Druss: If that makes sense. So, I don't want to go and find a new virtual world to play in. I'm actually leaving the virtual world. I spent yesterday with Romeo sitting outside the club that I usually go to.
Stacey Druss: talking to people. Somebody sat and was telling me about his memories coming up about 9-11. Somebody who's more towards the right. And I got to sit with them and talk to them and be in the world.
Jessie Upp: Yeah.
Stacey Druss: So, my journey's a little different. I am different, so I don't want you to take it the wrong way.
Stacey Druss: I'm unique.
Stacey Druss: But I… but I love that virtual world, but this was it for me.
Jessie Upp: Stacy, we're actually talking about the same thing, because I'm trying to get people off the virtual world, into their community, into their place-based, so I'm going to put this link in here. Based on Dunbar research, it shows that we only need about 50 people in our lives that we are committed to, and they're committed to us… I mean, they're committed to us, and there's reciprocation, and if that is there, in a place-based or digital, you… you decide.
Jessie Upp: We can thrive. It shows, based on research, we can thrive in smaller communities. And so, let's talk about that a little bit more, but it's all about getting back into our… into our community. If it's place-based, yes, for sure.
Stacey Druss: what I would just say is, find the people first.
Stacey Druss: Yes. And then use those spaces to coordinate. But find the people that you want to spend time with.
Stacey Druss: That's the key, that you want lift.
Jessie Upp: That's the link I just put in there, so thank you. And 42 is the meaning of life, so that's why 42.
Jerry Michalski: Cool, thank you. Thank you both. Before going to class, I just want to ask us to use the chat to answer Jesse's challenge. It's like, hey, what kinds of things might we engage in together?
Jerry Michalski: That would be juicy for you, that, we, the people in this group listening to this call right this second, this we, the very, very local we.
Jerry Michalski: And one thing I'm interested in is.
Jerry Michalski: doing something provocative to tease, cajole, poke-provoke the insurance companies. Like, I'm, like, a little tired, little tired of them not stepping up and helping change the world, shape the world for the good.
Jerry Michalski: In some way, and I would love to do something provocative, for the insurance company, so…
Jerry Michalski: ping me if you'd like to play with that together, and maybe there's something there. But I bet there's a bunch of other things that have been in our minds that if we share them into the chat, we might find two, three people who want to get together and do things, and then go off and do them. That would be great. And if you do any of that, come back and tell us about it later.
Jerry Michalski: Klaus, thank you for your patience.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, along the same lines as Jesse was just outlining, and Stacy, I like the, neighborhoods of sanity concept,
Klaus Mager: What is really happening in the regenerative movement right now is a concept someone else described as islands of coherence.
Klaus Mager: So the real… the realization that we can't spread lateral, you know, and boil the ocean, so to speak, you have to take one community at a time.
Klaus Mager: And the reason why… why that is so important is because we are, on the one hand, talking at the narrative level, right? Storylines. And so we are creating stories of change, of transition.
Klaus Mager: But then Donila Meadows comes to mind, right? The pyramid of a system where, yes, you have the narrative level that really… that really condenses the story, but then that same narrative has to stay intact as it rolls
Klaus Mager: down the pyramid, or I really call it an inverted pyramid, right? Because the narrative is at the base, and it's holding up the entire pyramid. So as you go through those layers, you know, through the administrative part, the operational part, that story has to stay intact.
Klaus Mager: and motivate and direct, you know, the action of people in that community. So that really takes…
Klaus Mager: you know, a transition, you know, it takes a convergence, you know, of many different layers there. And so.
Klaus Mager: I'm… you know, I'm working with spiral dynamics, so when we go into the base layers of this pyramid.
Klaus Mager: That's when you are operating in blue, right? People who are, in… in… like, Mike Johnson is the epitome of blue, the Speaker of the House.
Klaus Mager: So that's a different language, and that language is actually… has been evolving over, you know, 2,000 years. That's New Testament language that gets you into the hearts and minds of people who are operating in that layer.
Klaus Mager: So, we shouldn't hesitate, you know, to… because it's religion and all this stuff.
Klaus Mager: We shouldn't hesitate to use that language in order to reach out, because that's the world that, you know, this group has been embedded in.
Klaus Mager: and grew up in, you know, through Sunday school and, you know, Bible studies and all of this stuff. That's the language they understand.
Klaus Mager: So we can make… we have metaphors that are instantly, recognizable and… and… and resonate, yeah? And… and I think there is… there is this…
Klaus Mager: note this translation where there's a lot of knee-jerk reactions of, you know, I can't use this, this is childish, or this is whatever. No, this is the language of people you're trying to reach.
Klaus Mager: You know, and, and so, so, why not, why not, why not, you know, use it to its fullest? And there's a hunger right now.
Klaus Mager: Now, you can… you can see in the pop… you can see these often misguided attempts to bring religion into the… into the conversation.
Klaus Mager: But in the way it's done, it's more exploitative than supportive, yeah?
Klaus Mager: So… so there, there are pockets of, of, like this one congressperson in Texas who is a pastor, you know, wonderfully articulate, and he is… is unafraid and… and unintimidated to use biblical language to address his voters.
Klaus Mager: Yeah? And… and so that's… I think we… this is… this is… this… we have to change minds, we have to change narratives.
Klaus Mager: No, we have to change stories. And we are pretty much consolidated on the story we have at the top. I mean, amongst ourselves here, you know, the story is pretty clear what it should be, where we should be going, and so on. That this is not the challenge. The challenge is to translate this story.
Klaus Mager: Right? So it echoes in the different layers of this pyramid, in each… in each phase of them.
Klaus Mager: Sorry, didn't mean to preach.
Jerry Michalski: That's all right. Thanks, Klaus. I just noticed we're coming up on the end of our time. Klaus, you may have the last word. We have no Serkan Homer with us today, but I think I've found a poem that I would like to read in.
Jerry Michalski: as our clothes.
Jerry Michalski: So Gil, off to you.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Sorry, I thought you were giving Klaus the last word. Just very briefly, Klaus, I appreciate very much what you're saying, and I want to just flag a contradiction in what I heard of what you're saying.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which is about understanding people's language and speaking to them in that, but that can be manipulative, you said, I think. And exploitative. So there's a challenge there of how to do that that centers the listening more than the speaking.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Like, how do I engage with somebody who's in a very different language and worldview than me, so that we can understand each other, different than me learning how to use their language so I can get them to do what they want?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Because that sort of re-recapitulates the same problem, so… and it's a delicate dance to do that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But I think that's what you're pointing to, and you flagged the contradiction. I just wanted to highlight that, that, you know, I've heard a quote somewhere that I thought it was attributed to Gandhi, but I can't find it anywhere. But somebody once told me that all persuasion is violence.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it's, you know, it's an extreme statement, it's provocative, but there's something, for me, very generative in thinking into that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: How do I meet minds with other people and find better common purpose together without trying to bend them to my will?
Klaus Mager: Yeah, no.
Jerry Michalski: Perfect.
Klaus Mager: Listening. Who is one loss, right?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Jerry, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: You mentioned… I think you brought this up on the call of, 828, and I looked it up, and the closest I got was Sally Miller Gearhart.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Close enough for me, I love it. Thank you so much.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, that was my best tracking. Pete can probably do better than me on this, but
Jerry Michalski: Just saying, I'm not… I'm just a yellow belt.
Jerry Michalski: on there.
Jerry Michalski: comments?
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, you're gonna have the last word. I'm sorry. Which seems somehow appropriate, because you have the opening sound, too.
Stacey Druss: I know you wanted… I think… I just think this is an appropriate story for this last interaction. So, in a conversation with my mother, who voted for Trump 3 times, she's very old, you know, she's old, she's, you know, we're going through our last things.
Stacey Druss: She was very upset, I'm trying to calm her down, I don't want to fight with her.
Stacey Druss: Now, I'm Jewish. We had no religious training. I'm actually the only one that ever… I mean, my father was bar mitzvahed because his family, you know, did that. They were Democrats, they had Kennedy in their house. My mother's right, she was all Uncle Sam.
Stacey Druss: So she's kept talking to me. She's always… she always… she sounds… it has to… she sounds like an evangelical. She's always talking about the Lord, the Lord, the Lord. So she was worried about something, so I said, Mom, let's… let's pray together.
Stacey Druss: So… but I prayed to her, and I was calling in Gaia.
Stacey Druss: And anyway, she got very upset with me, and I forgot why I brought up the story, but it had to do with the language. Oh, and that's what it was. It was the delicate dance.
Stacey Druss: Because even though I was using what she kept saying about prayer and how important prayer was, now I was willing to
Stacey Druss: Pray with her.
Stacey Druss: And, you know, I said, you know, call upon grandma, and, you know, we call… and she believes in that, too. She really does.
Stacey Druss: But it was just very interesting, because when I wasn't going in the direction she wanted.
Stacey Druss: She got very, very angry. And that's what happens when you use somebody's own language, and we saw that with Charlie Kirk. When people used his own words.
Stacey Druss: People can get really angry, so it is a delicate dance, because
Stacey Druss: When you're dealing at a certain level of purposely trying to not be aware.
Stacey Druss: all the… all the emotions come out to push you away. So…
Stacey Druss: This wasn't the most articulate way to explain it, but it's a starting point for another conversation.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, Stacey. And you're reminding me a belated Shanatava to those who celebrate.
Jerry Michalski: Happy New Year.
Stacey Druss: T. Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks.
Jerry Michalski: Doug, thank you very much. I… the poem that, I will now read is by Cheshwave Miwash, I think that's how to pronounce his name. It's titled Love.
Jerry Michalski: And it goes as follows.
Jerry Michalski: Love means to learn to look at yourself, the way one looks at distant things, for you are only one thing among many.
Jerry Michalski: And whoever sees that way heals his heart without knowing it from various ills.
Jerry Michalski: A bird and a tree say hi to him.
Jerry Michalski: Trent.
Jerry Michalski: Then, he wants to use himself and things so that they stand in the glow of ripeness.
Jerry Michalski: It doesn't matter whether he knows what he serves, Who serves best, Doesn't always understand.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Hmm.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Can you read it again, Sherry.
Jerry Michalski: Sure.
Jerry Michalski: Love means to learn to look at yourself.
Jerry Michalski: The way one looks at distant things.
Jerry Michalski: For you are only one thing among many.
Jerry Michalski: And whoever sees that way heals his heart, without knowing it, from various ills.
Jerry Michalski: A bird in the tree say to him, Friend.
Jerry Michalski: Then he wants to use himself and things.
Jerry Michalski: So that they stand in the glow of ripeness.
Jerry Michalski: It doesn't matter whether he knows what he serves.
Jerry Michalski: Who serves best?
Jerry Michalski: Doesn't always understand.
Stacey Druss: Beautiful.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Matthew, can you give us a link?
Jerry Michalski: Alright, it's in the chat already.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Saul.
Jessie Upp: Thanks for a wonderful conversation, really appreciate this.
Jerry Michalski: And the way… the way we all approach these kinds of conversations makes my heart sing, so… thank you very much.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent.
John Warinner: Excuse me.